---
title: 'Extending Galaxy for Large-scale and Integrative Biomedical Analyses'
tease: "A new Galaxy project sponsored by the Chan Zuckerberg Initiative"
date: '2020-11-20'
---

We are excited to announce that Galaxy has been awarded a grant from the Chan
Zuckerberg Initiative (CZI) as one of the projects in their [Essential Open
Source Software for
Science](https://chanzuckerberg.com/rfa/essential-open-source-software-for-science/)
(EOSS) program. The aims of the CZI EOSS program are to support software
maintenance, growth, development, and community engagement for critical tools
in biomedical research. We are delighted for Galaxy to join this fantastic
program. This project has been awarded to the Oregon Health & Sciences
University, Johns Hopkins University, and the University of Melbourne. While
these three institutions have been working together to develop features for
Galaxy to function better in distributed and cloud computing environments for
several years, this CZI grant formalizes this collaboration for the first time,
enabling better coordinated efforts.

In this project, we will (1) extend Galaxy to allow easy browsing and importing
of datasets from large data repositories; (2) enable Galaxy to efficiently use
cloud computing resources for large-scale, near-data computing; and (3) extend
Galaxy integration with other data science environments. These new Galaxy
features will allow researchers to easily view and fetch data from Google
storage and the CZI [Human Cell Atlas](https://www.humancellatlas.org/) and
bring it into Galaxy, making it straightforward to ingest shared data. New
functionality in the Kubernetes-based deployment of Galaxy will enable
utilization of remote object data storage directly, skipping the need for a
shared file system and improving performance. Lastly, we will enable the
[Interactive
Tools](https://docs.galaxyproject.org/en/release_19.09/admin/special_topics/interactivetools.html),
starting with Jupyter, to operate on the Kubernetes deployment of Galaxy,
making this a portable, robust method of deploying ITs for Galaxy anywhere.

We are delighted to commence this project in the coming weeks and welcome input
and contributions from the Galaxy community. The software development in this
project will help solidify the Kubernetes-based version of Galaxy as a
full-featured, robust solution  for deploying  a production-quality, scalable
version of Galaxy on any computing platform, from laptop to computing cluster
to a commercial computing cloud. 
